

A chorded keyboard emulator for Linux in X11 (though I suspect this is easily portable to other operating systems using X11), inspired by the chorded keyboard used in the [Mother of all Demos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yJDv-zdhzMY). All configuration happens at compile-time in `config.c`, if there are any major changes to this project in the future the first will be towards easier configuration.

To compile, just run `make` in the directory containing the makefile. It produces the binary `chordial`, which takes over all keyboard input. Hit `escape` at any time to exit and regain previous keyboard control.

The given configuration uses space, j, i, o, and p as the input keys, chosen because those were the keys my right hand falls upon when I casually rest it on my keyboard. One can get through the alphabet by working from left to right, then adding keys when one has gotten all the way to the right. That is, space gives you 'a', j gives you 'b', p gives you 'e', and then pressing both space and j give you 'f', j and i give you 'j', o and p give 'o'. This continues on, so for example space, j, and i give 'p', and space, i, and p give you 't', and then the single exception to this is that j, i, o, and p give 'z' rather than getting 'z' from space, j, i, and o (only because I find it slightly more comfortable). The configuration also lets one input a period through space, i, o, and p, backspace through space, j, i, and p, and space through space, j, i, and i, but I must warn that there is a fairly significant bug involving space which I haven't deciphered yet.

I created this project to explore the input method, but I also wanted to be able to have sophisticated way of interacting with a computer with one hand so I could write or do something else with the other. Unfortunately, I found that even with decent practice and different configurations this method is slower than darting a single hand across the entire keyboard, since the method I use here is dependent on keyups to determine which chord a user intends to input. Any other method I could come up with would either leave many ambiguities about whether or not someone wanted a shorter chord or a longer one, or would require much more complicated chords. Even though this project failed in that regard, I think this project may have use as an accessibility tool for those who might be less comfortable moving their hand across the keyboard so much. The underlying logic is also easily portable to situations with a limited number of inputs available, and could serve as an alternative to something like the multi-tap or T9 systems used in many feature phones and older cell phones.